Source: Food at Furman During a Pandemic
URL: https://thepaladin.news/12892/arts-culture/food-at-furman-during-a-pandemic/
Date accessed: June 2026
Description: The Paladin student newspaper article discussing student experiences with Furman dining during COVID-19, including efficiency, food options, vegetarian options, plastic use, and the loss of dining community.

Food at Furman During a Pandemic is an article from The Paladin, Furman University’s student newspaper. The article was written by Anna Bowman and Elizabeth Collins and published on September 18, 2020. It discusses how Furman dining changed during COVID-19 and includes student opinions about the new dining system.

The article explains that seniors and freshmen experienced a remodeled Furman dining experience because of the Paladin Promise and COVID-19 safety measures. Furman reduced and socially distanced indoor seating in dining areas. A tent in Milford Mall provided another eating option for students and helped reduce the common hour lunch crowd. Students also used the GET app as a non-contact way to swipe for meals instead of using Furman IDs.

Students had mixed views about the benefits and drawbacks of the new dining policies. Senior Claire Griffith said the measures kept people separated and helped regulate social distancing, but she also described the systems as inefficient. She said waiting times increased even though fewer students were in line for food. She also said the GET app often did not work properly, which meant students still had to use Furman IDs to pay for meals.

Senior Abigail Dickie expressed concern about inefficiency and the lack of food options in the Dining Hall. She said her eating habits changed because dining was not as easy and there were not as many options she enjoyed. Dickie chose the lowest meal plan option but still felt frustrated because Furman required students to register for a meal plan and she did not feel she was getting her money’s worth.

Dickie also criticized the increased use of plastic caused by pandemic safety measures. She said many food items were wrapped in plastic, including fruit and sandwiches, and that prepared food was placed in plastic containers and wrapped again.

The article also presents a positive student perspective. Senior Zack Jones, who is vegetarian, said the quality of vegan and vegetarian options on campus improved that semester. Because of this, he was able to make more use of campus dining options. Jones said his takeout habits were about the same as in previous semesters. When he wanted something different, he relied mostly on the PDen and the Milford Mall tent. He also cooked with his roommates on weekends.

The article says one major effect of the new dining measures was the lack of community in the student body. Dickie said she used to view the Dining Hall as a social hub where she could catch up with other students. Griffith said she felt she did not have as much of a social life anymore and avoided the Dining Hall in favor of the PDen because the PDen felt more normal.

Overall, the article shows that students understood the safety reasons behind the dining changes, but some students felt that the new system created inefficiency, fewer enjoyable food options, more plastic waste, longer waits, and a weaker sense of community around dining.